Now, we were still talking about how
do we do this as busy developers?
Well, if we have JavaScript under our
belt, we are in good shape because
there is a really nice and growing
ecosystem for visualization in JavaScript.
I've already mentioned
a couple of times D3.js.
If folks have encountered D3,
you will find some overlap
in the concept with Plot,
which is what we're gonna use today I'll
talk about a little bit more in a second.
But as I said, D3 is essentially
a lower level library for
visualization that requires you
to get a little bit more nitty
gritty with things like
the scales that you're using.
And the kind of underlying
components of your visualization.
And it's really powerful,
really amazing for making custom visuals.
So the ideas that we're gonna cover in
this course are a little bit higher level,
but are gonna put you in good shape,
as we've said a couple times, for
going on and deepening that knowledge.
You're getting a little bit lower level
to build a little bit more customizable,
a little bit fancier
visualizations with D3.
And there are some great courses
from folks like Shirley Wu on
Frontend Masters that you can
use to learn more about D3.
There's another library called Vega-Lite,
which is in many ways similar to Plot.
You might have seen it around.
If not, essentially a lot of the concepts
that we're gonna cover today in Plot
are very similar to Vega-Lite.
Both Plot and
Vega-Lite are higher levels, so
have a little bit higher
level abstractions for
dealing with these visualization tasks
than something lower level like D3.
And then as we mentioned, there's some
tools for kind of more advanced data
wrangling that you might wanna explore as
you get into this field in more depth.
A couple of them are Arquero,
which is put out by the University
of Washington team there.
And tidy.js is also great for
working with.
We mentioned tidy data before.
That's where that name comes from.
And if you've worked ever with R,
for example,
R is another really popular platform for
environment I guess for
data analysis and visualization.
tidy.js is very kind of R compatible, so
it brings a lot of the notions
of R into JavaScript.
And there's a whole bunch more, so
there are links in the materials
here if you want to explore
the JavaScript ecosystem.
And there are also, of course,
some libraries that give you these
more out-of-the-box visualizations
like bar charts or line charts and
things like that.
We're not gonna look at those today
because what we're gonna focus on
again is those general concepts of
things like using scales to encode
features from the data
into visual channels.
And what you'll find is that then
those out-of-the-box charts from some
libraries that let's say will just give
you sort of components to throw a bar
chart on your site.
Those are great if you know that what you
need is a particular bar chart that fits
within those parameters.
But what we're gonna focus on today
is understanding the more general
principles of choosing mappings from
your data to the visualization.
So that you aren't just constrained by
those kind of out-of-the-box solutions so
that you have control and
you can make the visualization that
is best suited to your use case.
Now, down the line, once you've kind of
wrapped your head around those concepts
and you've realized, no, actually, I just
need the out-of-the-box bar chart today.
Those are great, quick and easy solutions.
But today, we're gonna focus on those core
principles to make sure that we're not
painting ourselves into any corners or
sort of pigeonholing ourselves too much.
So we're gonna kind of strike a nice
balance between custom visualizations, and
high level abstractions that
help us build those quickly.